# [jenkins](https://jenkins.io/doc/tutorials/)

# Run Jenkins in Docker
- In this tutorial, you’ll be running Jenkins as a Docker container from the jenkinsci/blueocean Docker image.
- Run the jenkinsci/blueocean image as a container in Docker, this command automatically downloads the image if this hasn’t been done or updates the jenkinsci/blueocean Docker image, if an updated one is available.
```bash
docker run \
  --rm \
  -u root \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  -v jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home \
  -v $(which docker):/usr/bin/docker \
  -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  -v "$HOME":/home \
  jenkinsci/blueocean
```
Note:
```bash
-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
```
- Map the /var/jenkins_home directory in the container to the Docker volume with the name jenkins-data on the host machine.
- If this volume does not exist on the host machine, then this docker run command will automatically create the volume for you.
```bash
-v "$HOME":/home \ 
```
- Map the $HOME directory on the host (i.e. your local) machine (usually the /Users/<your-username> directory) to the /home directory in the container
```bash
docker exec -it jenkins-tutorials bash
```
- Access Jenkins/Blue Ocean Docker container through terminal using docker exec commands add --name flag

# Jenkinsfile Java
- Create a Jenkinsfile in the route of SCM
```
pipeline {
    agent {
        docker {
            image 'maven:3-alpine' 
            args '-v /root/.m2:/root/.m2' 
        }
    }
    stages {
        stage('Build') { 
            steps {
                sh 'mvn -B -DskipTests clean package' 
            }
        }
	stage('Test') {
            steps {
                sh 'mvn test'
            }
            post {
                always {
                    junit 'target/surefire-reports/*.xml'
                }
            }
        }
	stage('Deliver') {
            steps {
                sh './jenkins/scripts/deliver.sh'
            }
        }
    }
}
```
- The **image** parameter (of the agent section’s docker parameter) downloads the maven:3-apline Docker image (if it’s not already available on your machine) and runs this image as a separate container. This means that:
- You’ll have separate Jenkins and Maven containers running locally in Docker.
- The Maven container becomes the agent that Jenkins uses to run your Pipeline project. However, this container is short-lived - its lifespan is only that of the duration of your Pipeline’s execution.

- The **args** parameter creates a reciprocal mapping between the /root/.m2 (i.e. Maven repository) directories in the short-lived Maven Docker container and that of your Docker host’s filesystem. 
- This is to ensure that the artifacts necessary to build your Java application (which Maven downloads while your Pipeline is being executed) are retained in the Maven repository beyond the lifespan of the Maven container. 
- This prevents Maven from having to download the same artifacts during successive runs of your Jenkins Pipeline, which you’ll be conducting later on. 
- Be aware that unlike the Docker data volume you created for jenkins-data above, the Docker host’s filesystem is effectively cleared out each time Docker is restarted. This means you’ll lose the downloaded Maven repository artifacts each time Docker restarts.

- Defines a stage (directive) called **Build** that appears on the Jenkins UI.
- This sh step (of the steps section) runs the Maven command to cleanly build your Java application (without running any tests).

- Defines a stage (directive) called **Test** that appears on the Jenkins UI.
- This sh step (of the steps section) executes the Maven command to run the unit test on your simple Java application. 
- This command also generates a JUnit XML report, which is saved to the target/surefire-reports directory (within the /var/jenkins_home/workspace/simple-java-maven-app directory in the Jenkins container).
- This junit step (provided by the JUnit Plugin) archives the JUnit XML report (generated by the mvn test command above) and exposes the results through the Jenkins interface. 
- In Blue Ocean, the results are accessible through the Tests page of a Pipeline run. 

- The **post** section’s always condition that contains this junit step ensures that the step is always executed at the completion of the Test stage, regardless of the stage’s outcome

- Defines a new stage called **Deliver** that appears on the Jenkins UI.
- This sh step (of the steps section) runs the shell script deliver.sh located in the jenkins/scripts directory from the root of the simple-java-maven-app repository. 
- Explanations about what this script does are covered in the deliver.sh file itself. 
- As a general principle, it’s a good idea to keep your Pipeline code (i.e. the Jenkinsfile) as tidy as possible and place more complex build steps (particularly for stages consisting of 2 or more steps) into separate shell script files like the deliver.sh file. This ultimately makes maintaining your Pipeline code easier, especially if your Pipeline gains more complexity.

# Run Jenkins
http://localhost:8080/blue/organizations/jenkins/simple-java-maven-app/activity
Go back to Jenkins again, log in again if necessary and ensure you’ve accessed Jenkins’s Blue Ocean interface.

Click Run at the top left, then quickly click the OPEN link which appears briefly at the lower-right to see Jenkins running your amended Pipeline project. If you weren’t able to click the OPEN link, click the top row on the Blue Ocean interface to access this feature.
